JUDY WOODRUFF: Members
of Congress returned to
Washington today for what
could be a make-or-break
few weeks for Republicans'
packed agenda, that as the
Russia investigations and the
upcoming testimony of former
FBI Director James Comey
continue to add complications
for the party.
Lisa Desjardins reports.
MAN: The Senate
will come to order.
LISA DESJARDINS: From
the Senate floor...
MAN: Good morning.
This hearing will come to order.
LISA DESJARDINS: ... to
committee rooms, to Capitol Hill
hallways, congress is back from
recess, and facing big
issues with little time.
Senate Republicans are at
a pivotal point, trying to
write their health care bill.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), Majority
Leader: We had another of
our ongoing discussions about
the way forward on health care.
We're getting closer to having
a proposal that we will be
bringing up in the near future.
LISA DESJARDINS: They would
like a vote this month, but
Democrats point out Republican
senators don't yet have a plan
with enough votes on their own.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: I have a message for
our Republican colleagues.
It's very simple: Abandon
repeal, stop sabotaging
our health care system,
and you will find
Democrats waiting to
work with you to improve
the health care system.
LISA DESJARDINS: The White
House, meanwhile, stressed the
will on health care, but not
the way.
SEAN SPICER, White House
Press Secretary: By and large,
every elected Republican in
the House and the Senate
campaigned on this for
the last seven years.
LISA DESJARDINS: But with health
care still unfinished, that
means a backed-up GOP agenda,
with infrastructure, tax reform,
spending bills, not to mention
raising the debt ceiling,
all needing attention
soon in order to pass.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States: What a great team
this is, what an unbelievable
team.
LISA DESJARDINS: All of that
brought the GOP's key leaders,
House and Senate, to the White
House to meet with
President Trump today.
DONALD TRUMP: So we're working
very hard on massive tax
cuts, and we're working very,
very hard on the health care.
And I think we're going
to have some very pleasant
surprises for a lot of people.
LISA DESJARDINS: But even this
meeting had a nod to fired
FBI Director James Comey's
big hearing this week.
DONALD TRUMP: I wish him luck.
Thank you, everybody.
LISA DESJARDINS: And the cloud
that continues to hang over
the president's own agenda.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And
Lisa joins me now.
She is joined by
our own John Yang.
Great to have both of you here.
So, John, I'm going
the start with you.
You just heard Lisa's
reporting about what
they're doing on the hill.
What is the White House
trying to do right now?
JOHN YANG: Well, right now,
they're pushing infrastructure
this week, yesterday, airways,
tomorrow, waterways, Thursday,
highways and streets,
Friday, permitting process.
Now, you might think that
means they have got an
infrastructure bill ready to go.
No.
This is concepts,
it's proposals, it's
broad policy ideas.
They really don't have
a timeline yet of when
they think they will
have an infrastructure
bill ready to
introduce in Congress.
They don't even know yet
whether it will be one bill or a
series of legislative packages.
They're still on
the drawing board.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sounds
like it's still early.
So, Lisa, talk specifically
about the time crunch.
What is Congress
dealing with here?
LISA DESJARDINS: I think
Congress is looking at
essentially a 60-yard
field goal to try
and get everything
done that it has to.
It has to be perfect.
Look at the calendar, what
Congress and Republicans
hoped to do this year.
This is what they wanted to
happen, have health care passed
in February and March and then
tax reform.
We should be talking
about a bill right now.
That's what they wanted.
Let's look at what's
actually happened instead.
The calendar now instead
has health care now.
Obviously, that wasn't
passed until May.
And then Senate is
dealing with it now.
So what's happened
to tax reform?
Well, that's been kicked back
because we see the debt ceiling
and the spending bill coming
up this summer, further jamming
the calendar, meaning tax
reform might be pushed back to
the fall, Judy.
And, as John said, this is
one reason there's not a
timeline for infrastructure.
It simply doesn't fit, and
it's not clear that all
these things fit either.
We're never seen Congress
be able to get this much
done in that amount of time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, John, as Lisa
is suggesting, in addition to
infrastructure, there is more
that the White House
wants to get through.
JOHN YANG: That's right.
They want -- they have got two
things on their wish list, one
thing on their must-do list.
On the wish list, they want
to get a health care vote
before the August recess.
They of course had hoped
to have that done by now.
And then, as Lisa has pointed
out, they want the tax bill
introduced after Labor Day.
They were hoping to have
that passed by August.
The must-do list, they
have got to raise the
debt ceiling, big debate
inside the administration,
do you do that clean with
nothing attached to it, or do
you have spending cuts and other
spending reforms in order
to get conservatives, fiscal
conservatives to vote for it?
JUDY WOODRUFF: So,
Lisa, again, back to the
Hill, when Republican
leaders hear all this,
how do they think they can get
it done, or do they really?
LISA DESJARDINS: Yes,
reality is a tricky concept
right now on Capitol Hill.
But this is what I have gotten
from sources that I trust.
They believe there will
be a Senate vote on
health care before August.
Now, there's big questions over
whether the House and Senate
will come together on a health
care package after that.
That's very much in question.
Tax reform, people are openly
talking now that they're not
sure that they can actually
get that done.
I'm hearing voices in the
Republican Party saying...
JUDY WOODRUFF: This year or...
LISA DESJARDINS: This year,
and maybe not in the next
cycle, because there's so much
heavy lifting.
They're now even starting to
say maybe that becomes a tax
cut, instead of sweeping tax
reform.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, meantime,
John, at the White House,
the president is saying some
things, his aides and
spokespeople are sometimes
- - in fact, often saying
something different.
JOHN YANG: Well, on the
legislative process,
he keeps talking as if
health care is ready
for a vote in the Senate.
He talks about it as if the
tax reform, the tax cut bill is
ready for a vote in the Senate,
and everything is
just two weeks.
In two weeks, we're going
to have a great plan.
But this is put off
well into the future.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, in fact,
Lisa, we were talking about
this earlier, what the president
is saying, John is reporting
in some of these expectations
that he's putting out there and
tweeting about, including
about other subjects, that then
members of Congress, leadership
have to react to, all of that is
having an effect on the agenda.
LISA DESJARDINS: Right.
I think, until now, many
Republicans have been able to
shrug it off, as much as they
themselves were
frustrated by it.
But today, Judy, Senator Bob
Corker, generally a Trump ally,
was literally speechless when
he was told about the
president's tweet about Qatar.
Now, I also have to say,
though, even though I
think these distractions
are actually affecting
the agenda now, something
bigger than that still is
that Republicans can't agree.
That's still the basic problem.
Republicans in the House and
Senate and in the White House
have not come up with plans
on these items.
And that's still the
essential problem.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it's a
lot of moving parts, and I
know the two of you are going
to continue to report it.
And, as we speak, there's more
news coming out of the White
House and the Hill tonight
on all this.
Thank you very much, Lisa
Desjardins, John Yang.